Today we will talk about a concept
that is very fashionable but
that we really love and is the
business culture.
By the way, it may sound
too theoretical, this has no
transcendence and
other things, right?
But I guarantee you that it is not so.
It is proven that companies
that have a rooted, powerful,
very clear culture have
better results.
They are 20 to 30
percent better than
their competitors.
And why?
Because culture contributes mainly
to two factors, in two leverages.
On the one hand, culture contributes
to the value of the brand, helps you
create a brand.
What is the brand for us?
Well, because the brand serves
us to sell more, to connect better
with our customers, etc.
You already know that.
And on the other hand, culture
helps you to be able to attract
and retain better talent, with
the huge impact that this has
on any organization.
Now, we need to define
the concept of culture.
I will tell you that this is a
very broad concept, which depends
on many things.
And, moreover, if we look
for definitions, we will find a
million different definitions.
Well, before we make our definition
of culture, what I'm going to
do is ask you to do a little
exercise.
I want you to move for a second
to the companies I'm talking
about.
You try to live the culture,
what is lived there.
We will start with Zapos, which
is the typical example of
exceptional culture, based on a
huge autonomy, freedom, flexibility
of employees who have
managed to move into a unique
customer experience.
His philosophy, his values is, if
I have happy employees, I will
have happy customers.
Imagine what's going on in the office,
in the office.
Now let's move to Goldman
Sachs, which is an investment bank.
I don't know if you know it or not, but
since you enter the scholars already
earn a lot of money, the bonuses
every year are very high, everyone
working and thinking about the
bonus.
Very competitive environment, very well-
trained people, etc.
People work until the twelve
in the evening, until the one
in the morning every day.
This is Goldman Sachs.
This is the culture of an investment bank.
Now we will try to live the culture
of a neighborhood management.
A lot of paper, lots of paper
everywhere.
Employees have worked there
all their lives.
The work is very repetitive.
You don't do the same thing every
day, but throughout the year you've
been doing the same thing every
year for 25 years.
More or less strict times.
People do not work with
excessive joy, etc.
This is the usual culture.
Not everyone has to be like that.
I don't want to get into where they
don't call me, but it's the usual
culture in a neighborhood management.
And let us now think of the
culture of a factory, of a chain
of assembly.
I don't have to describe it
much, but I understand that it's
easy to imagine.
You get there 5 minutes late and
you get fired.
Well, culture is what makes
these companies so different
from each other.
Now let's try to make a definition.
I like to define business culture
as the DNA or as the personality
of a company.
And what does this depend on?
Well, it depends on those characteristics
that this company has that
makes it unique, because they
are unique in that company
as in a person.
And that also distinguish you from the
rest of the organizations.
That is culture.
The question is, what does culture
depend on?
Because it's such a broad concept, I'm
talking about DNA, I'm talking about personality.
What are the factors that determine
a company to have a culture
like zapos?
People are happy, flexible, etc.
or completely different cultures.
Let us identify the key factors.
The first is vision and mission.
The mission, remember, is the reason
to be.
What are we dedicated to?
Because it's not the same as
your mission is to change the
world, revolutionize a sector, create
a drug that will cure cancer.
It's not the same as that's your mission
to make your mission something much
more normal.
Or the vision where do we want to go?
What is the objective?
This is crucial in the culture of
an organization.
The Values.
The values are very important,
but they are not the values you
have put on the about us of the
website, on the top of us.
It's not the values you've
written, it's the values you
live with every day.
A very important and decisive factor
in an organization's culture is the
people who make up the organization.
And what does this depend on?
It depends on the criteria of hiring,
it depends on who you have
hired, it is obvious.
In many cases, there are very homogeneous
cultures, very rooted in small
or medium-sized companies because
founders have surrounded themselves
with people who are very similar
to them.
For example, I know small consultants
whom the founders, the general
directors, ultimately have selected
people who look like, then
ultimately the culture
is very homogeneous.
Everyone has a similar profile.
Culture depends on what you offer
your employees, how you treat
your employees, how you remunerate
them, whether they feel well
paid or not, but not just
economically, but in terms
of development, etc.
An important factor, and we have
named it before when we talked
about zapos, is the autonomy,
freedom, flexibility
that the people of your team
have.
It has nothing to do with the culture
that is generated in a company where
you have a lot of autonomy, zapos,
to the culture that is generated in
a company where you have nothing
to say.
That has a huge impact.
Another important factor is the close
relationship between the leaders
and the rest of the team.
From companies that are very
horizontal, where everyone is very
close, to companies or cultures
that are very hierarchical,
where it is almost impossible
to access, communication flows
and is much worse.
Another aspect is the place, are the offices.
And I'm not just talking about whether
the offices are beautiful or
not, that's impact.
I can share with you that
we were two weeks ago at Typhoon
in Barcelona and the offices
are spectacular.
Without scratching much more, the culture
that is perceived there is very marked.
But not just the offices, that
is, not just the decoration, but
how far it is.
Because I'm going to put you at an extreme,
it's not the same that you have your
offices in Silicon Valley as you
have them in Iraq.
That is, there are sites that
contribute in one way or another to
the culture of an organization.
The last factor I will name
is risk tolerance, risk
aversion or not.
There are organizations that have a culture
where it is understood that risking
and failing is understandable,
nothing happens, they can even
encourage you to do so.
And there are other organizations
in which all the opposite, which
sure come a lot to your head.
This has a huge impact on
the culture of an organization.